Subject: Do you need more computing power? Then join the upcoming Condor system
course.

Hi all,

do you need more computing power? Do you have hundreds of simulations to run,
and just running them in your computer is going to take weeks or months? Then
Condor might help you to reduce drastically the amount of time needed to perform
those simulations! Keep reading....

At the IAC there are hundreds of workstations that sit idle for long periods of
time. Condor takes this wasted computation time and puts it to good use: you can
use Condor's opportunistic behavior to scavenge cycles from desktop machines
when their users are not using the machines (for example, in the evening or
during lunch). Typically, these desktop machines are unused for twelve or more
hours per day. This processing time is available at no extra cost under Condor.

Condor can also streamline your work by allowing the submission of many jobs at
the same time. In this way, tremendous amounts of computation can be done with
very little intervention from the user. Source code does not have to be modified
in any way to take advantage of these benefits.

But if your code can be re-linked with the Condor libraries, then your jobs can
also produce checkpoints, that can be used to resume execution (and thus save
days, or even weeks of accumulated computation time), if a machine crashes, or
must be rebooted for an administrative task.

If this sounds good to you, you would be pleased to know that we have organized
a talk on Condor for the 28th of September (see
http://www.iac.es/sieinvens/SINFIN/sie_courses.html).

Also, we are planning to have a small practical course on Condor (a hands-on
session on the days 4/10 and 6/10 from 16.00-18.00). In order to gauge the
interest for this course and to help us organize the course more efficiently,
please reply to this e-mail if you would be interested in attending the course.

[If you are interested in the course but could not make it during the given
times, please send me an e-mail anyway, and depending on interest we could
perhaps organize an alternative session. This course can be given in English if
required. You are supposed to bring your own laptop, and the maximum number of
attendees will be 12, so send an e-mail to angelv@iac.es if you want to reserve
a place.]
 
Sincerely,
Angel de Vicente


------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
TESTIMONIAL

From: Daniel Martyn Bramich <dmb7@st-andrews.ac.uk>
To: Angel de Vicente <angelv@iac.es>
Subject: Condor
Date: Wed, 8 Sep 2004 13:32:29 +0100 (BST)

Hola Angel,
Abajo es el testimonio que queriste. Lo hice en Ingles porque mi espanol
escrito es muy mal:

I have been using Condor in order to carry out calculations which would
not have been possible otherwise for my project. I have 33000 lightcurves
and I want to calculate the number of hot Jupiters that I expect to detect
from my data. To do this I use a Monte Carlo simulation and inject 1000
random planets into each lightcurve and count how many transits I recover.
In total, that is 33 million tests.

Each lightcurve requires from 10 to 30 minutes on a fast machine with IDL.
That makes an average of 11000 computer hours or equivalently, 458 days on
one machine, way too long! Even if I use a faster language like Fortran it
may still take 3 months! Instead I used Condor, and submitted the
lightcurves individually as jobs. On average I have 30 of the
fastest computers at the IAC working for me at any one time (limited by
the number of free licenses), and 40 computers working for me at St
Andrews (limited by the number of computers). It took a couple of weeks to
complete the calculations, and this will result in a whole paper by
itself...

Daniel Bramich, IAC & University Of St Andrews


